# Kubernetes GPT Analyzer

The Kubernetes GPT Analyzer is a tool designed to analyze Kubernetes configurations and provide insights using the power of the GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) model. This tool helps Kubernetes administrators and developers understand, optimize, and troubleshoot their Kubernetes deployments more effectively.

The original version of this tool is available on GitHub project [K8s-GPT](https://github.com/k8sgpt-ai/k8sgpt).

## Features

- **Configuration Analysis**: Analyze Kubernetes YAML configurations to identify potential issues, best practices violations, and optimization opportunities.
- **Recommendations**: Receive actionable recommendations based on the analysis to improve the efficiency, security, and reliability of Kubernetes deployments.
- **Natural Language Insights**: Interpret analysis results through natural language descriptions generated by the GPT model, providing intuitive explanations for detected issues and recommendations.
- **Customization**: Customize analysis rules and thresholds to align with specific deployment requirements and policies.
- **Integration**: Seamlessly integrate the analyzer into CI/CD pipelines, development workflows, or Kubernetes management platforms.

## Installation

Application is avalable on Linux/Mac via brew:

```bash
brew tap k8sgpt-ai/k8sgpt
brew install k8sgpt
```

## Examples

* Currently, the default AI provider is OpenAI, you will need to generate an API key from [OpenAI](https://openai.com)
  You can do this by running `k8sgpt generate` to open a browser link to generate it

* Run `k8sgpt auth add` to set it in k8sgpt.
  You can provide the password directly using the `--password` flag.

* Run `k8sgpt filters` to manage the active filters used by the analyzer. By default, all filters are executed during analysis.

* Run `k8sgpt analyze` to run a scan.

* And use `k8sgpt analyze --explain` to get a more detailed explanation of the issues.

* You also run `k8sgpt analyze --with-doc` (with or without the explain flag) to get the official documentation from Kubernetes.
